README.md, before:

arcpy4nix
===================

## About This Project ##
arcpy4nix provides a set of [arcpy](http://desktop.arcgis.com/en/arcmap/10.3/analyze/arcpy/what-is-arcpy-.htm)-compatible APIs on both Windows and Linux platform.
arcpy4nix uses ArcGIS Java Runtime SDK to provide cross-platform functionality to execute many geospatial analytical [arcpy functions](https://developers.arcgis.com/java/guide/local-server-geoprocessing-tools-support.htm).

## How to use
Simply replace
```Python
import arcpy
```
with
```Python
import arcpy4nix as arcpy
```
That's all!

## Installation
1. Prerequisites:
 	- JDK
 	- Scala 2.10.x
 	- Python 2.7.x
 	- Git
	- ArcGIS Runtime Java SDK 10.2.4. You need obtain proper license from ESRI to deploy/redistribute it.
2. Compiling:
 	1. Install ArcGIS Runtime Java SDK 10.2.4

	2. Add `$ARCGISRUNTIME_JAVA_XXX=<ArcGIS_Runtime_Installation_folder>` environment variable to your shell environment if using Linux. *It is highly recommended `source init_sdk.sh` in `.bashrc` file*. ArcGIS Runtime Java SDK automatically sets it in Windows.

	3. Clone me, then:
		- In `runtimemanager` folder, execute
			```
			$ sbt
			> compile
			> assembly
			```
		- in `arcgis4nix` folder, excute
			```
			$ python setup.py build_gpk
			$ python setup.py build
			$ python setup.py install
			```

## Supported fuctions and types
arcpy4nix supports most geospatial analytical functions. Some functions not explicitly supported by ArcGIS Runtime might also work. A typical arcpy function is like
```python
result = arcpy.MinimumBoundingGeometry_management("parks.shp",
                                         "c:/output/output.gdb/parks_mbg",
                                         "RECTANGLE_BY_AREA", "NONE")
```
In this example, `arcpy.MinimumBoundingGeometry_management` will be `eval()` on ArcGIS Runtime Local Server and result will be serialized as JSON then saved in a dummpy `arcpy4nix.Result` object. The dummpy class `arcpy4nix.Result` provides compatible functions (e.g. `getOutput()`, `getMessage()`).

The arcpy4nix acutally `eval()` each arcpy function in a seperate process. So it is not possible to share variables between your script and remote arcpy functions. arcpy4nix makes efforts to passthrough variables but not all cases could be supported.

Native Linux paths is acceptable. arcpy4nix will dynamically map them into correct *wine* path. However, it is highly recommended to start path with "/", "." or ".." because this would be the easist way to let arcpy4nix know the variable is a path to be mapped to *wine*. I am working in progress to tag each parameter in each function whether a path or not.

If no license is set via `arcpy4nix.set_license`, ArcGIS Runtime will work in developer mode which pops up a dialog showing license notice. If you'd like to deploy this program in headless-linux environment (e.g. HPC cluster), you must obtain a stardard license from ESRI and proper extensions.
The package is not extensively tested. Bug reports and contributes are extremely welcome.


## WARNING! WARNING! WARNING!
THIS PACKAGE WILL FAITHFULLY EXECUTE ANY PYTHON SCRIPTS PASSED TO IT. BAD GUYS CAN COMPLETELY CONTROL YOUR SYSTEM USING EXPOSED LOCAL SERVER INSTANCE. PLEASE ENSURE YOUR WORKING ENVIRONMENT IS COMPLETELY SAFE.

## How it works:
*TODO*

## Limitations
- Passing arcpy4nix.env to arcpy.env on local server is not supported. You need manually set environments
- It it not possible to retrieve any vector formats "in_memory" workspace
- `Geometry`, `SpatialReferece`, `Extent` classes are not supported now. Implementation is planning.
- `arcpy.da` package is not supported. Implementation is nearly impossible. There is no benefits to CRUD geospatial data locally using `arcpy.da`. Please use [gdal/ogr] instead.

## License

Commit message:

Added basic wrapper for arcpy.
Let us go for some test

README.md, after:

arcpy4nix
===================

## About This Project ##
arcpy4nix provides a set of [arcpy](http://desktop.arcgis.com/en/arcmap/10.3/analyze/arcpy/what-is-arcpy-.htm)-compatible APIs on both Windows and Linux platform.
arcpy4nix uses ArcGIS Java Runtime SDK to provide cross-platform functionality to execute many geospatial analytical [arcpy functions](https://developers.arcgis.com/java/guide/local-server-geoprocessing-tools-support.htm).

## How to use
Simply replace
```Python
import arcpy
```
with
```Python
import arcpy4nix as arcpy
```
That's all!

## Installation
1. Prerequisites:
 	- JDK
 	- Scala 2.10.x
 	- Python 2.7.x
 	- Git
	- ArcGIS Runtime Java SDK 10.2.4. You need obtain proper license from ESRI to deploy/redistribute it.
2. Compiling:
 	1. Install ArcGIS Runtime Java SDK 10.2.4

	2. Add `export ARCGISRUNTIMESDKJAVA_10_2_4=<ArcGIS_Runtime_Installation_folder>` environment variable to your shell environment if using Linux. *It is highly recommended `source init_sdk.sh` in `.bashrc` file*. ArcGIS Runtime Java SDK automatically sets it in Windows.

	3. Clone me, then:
		- In `runtimemanager` folder, execute
			```
			$ sbt
			> compile
			> assembly
			```
		- in `arcgis4nix` folder, excute
			```
			$ python setup.py build_gpk
			$ python setup.py build
			$ python setup.py install
			```

## Supported fuctions and types
arcpy4nix supports most geospatial analytical functions. Some functions not explicitly supported by ArcGIS Runtime might also work. A typical arcpy function is like
```python
result = arcpy.MinimumBoundingGeometry_management("parks.shp",
                                         "c:/output/output.gdb/parks_mbg",
                                         "RECTANGLE_BY_AREA", "NONE")
```
In this example, `arcpy.MinimumBoundingGeometry_management` will be `eval()` on ArcGIS Runtime Local Server and result will be serialized as JSON then saved in a dummpy `arcpy4nix.Result` object. The dummpy class `arcpy4nix.Result` provides compatible functions (e.g. `getOutput()`, `getMessage()`).

The arcpy4nix acutally `eval()` each arcpy function in a seperate process (actually, a completely different, isolated, odd Python environment). So it is not possible to share variables between your script and remote arcpy functions. arcpy4nix makes efforts to passthrough variables but not all cases could be supported.

Native Linux paths are acceptable. arcpy4nix will dynamically map them into correct *wine* path. However, it is highly recommended to start path with "/", ".", ".." or "path:" because this would be the easist way to let arcpy4nix know the variable is a path to be mapped to *wine*. I am working in progress to tag each parameter in each function whether a path or not. Please be aware that ArcGIS Runtime Local Server has its own working directory, which is different from working directory of the native Python process. Using relative path in wine may cause unexpected result. 

If no license is set via `arcpy4nix.set_license`, ArcGIS Runtime will work in developer mode which pops up a dialog showing license notice. If you'd like to deploy this program in headless-linux environment (e.g. HPC cluster), you must obtain a stardard license from ESRI and proper extensions.
The package is not extensively tested. Bug reports and contributes are extremely welcome.


## WARNING! WARNING! WARNING!
THIS PACKAGE WILL FAITHFULLY EXECUTE ANY PYTHON SCRIPTS PASSED TO IT. BAD GUYS CAN COMPLETELY CONTROL YOUR SYSTEM USING EXPOSED LOCAL SERVER INSTANCE. PLEASE ENSURE YOUR WORKING ENVIRONMENT IS COMPLETELY SAFE.

## How it works:
*TODO*

## Known unsupported functions
Functions/Classes in following toolboxes are not implemented. It is possible to call them through arcgisscripting interface, namely `arcpy.gp.<function>`. However, one must use string representation of all input parameters. Wine path mapping might not work.
	- Topology 
	- Geostatistic
	- Geocoding
	- Networking
	- Server
	- Tracking
If you're using any of these functions, it is extremely welcomed to provide me some example how they work as python scripts. Some of them are not supported by ArcGIS Runtime. If you figured out how to call these functions via arcpy4nix (not through `send` function), please also let me know and I will add supports for them.

## Limitations
- Passing arcpy4nix.env to arcpy.env on local server is not supported. You need manually set environments in "predefined block". WIP
- It it not possible to retrieve any vector dataset from "in_memory" workspace
- `Geometry`, `SpatialReferece`, `Extent` classes are not supported now. Implementation is planning.
- `arcpy.da` package is not supported. Implementation is nearly impossible. There is no benefits to CRUD geospatial data locally using `arcpy.da`. Please use [gdal/ogr] instead.

## License
